With wind turbines paving the way for a future that needs to be more reliant on renewable energy, this report introduces potential logistical issues of installing new wind turbines on land. These issues are highlighted in a real world case study, where Seabank Power LTD objected the planning application to erect a single turbine by Ambition Community in the Avonmouth region. The reason behind this objection was due to concerns regarding the wind turbine toppling onto a nearby cooling tower and causing damage. Therefore, this report attempts to answer what would exactly happen in such an incident. To do this, a rigid body model is built of the turbine toppling, to calculate the velocity and force of such an impact. The force at impact is calculated to be in a range of 1MN to 14MN, depending on the point of impact along the turbine blade. The turbine blade is then modelled as an inhomogeneous elastic beam to analyse the outcome when subject to an impact load. By calculating the stresses along the blade, it can be determined whether the blade will break and where this break will occur. The results of this model conclude the blade will only break if the point of impact between the blade and the cooling tower is 24m or greater along the blade (for a 40m turbine blade). Furthermore, the point of breaking is likely to occur near the nacelle, rather than the point of impact . Finally a dynamic model is created to analyse the vibrations within the blade after impact. The results of this model show the greatest displacements in the vibrations occur at the tip of the blade, the point of impact and near the root of the blade. This suggests fracture could occur in multiple locations along the blade.
